---
id: 47
version: v1.5.5
date: Released on 23rd September 2024.
---
## Changelog

### Improvements

- **Minor**: Made the type optional in ES Response.
- **Feature**: Added support for refresh tokens with multiple tabs open.
- **Fix**: Resolved issue of overriding user info after login.
- **Minor**: Updated the custom property entities data model, along with the data product and database schema icons.
- **Fix**: Ensured Teams and Owner fields are correctly passed in the policy API call.
- **Improvement**: Enhanced PII logging information.
- **Fix**: Addressed the paginate_es issue in OpenSearch.
- **Feature**: Decrypted JWT internally for system health checks.
- **Minor**: Implemented multithreading in View Lineage Processing.
- **Improvement**: Improved search relevancy.
- **Fix**: Resolved issue with owners patch.
- **Fix (Data Quality)**: Fixed Snowflake data diff issue.
- **Minor**: Updated Presidio Analyzer version and validated support for legal entities.
- **Feature**: Added validations for Salesforce connection.
- **Feature**: Allowed PII Processor to operate without storing sample data.
- **Minor**: Added seconds to the human-readable format scale for test case graphs.
- **Fix**: Added missing field in glossary term.
- **Fix**: Excluded defaultPersona if not present in personas.
- **Fix**: Resolved team export issue.
- **Fix**: Updated Python lineage SDK to work with UUID and FQN models.
- **Fix**: Fixed LDAP login issue.
- **Fix**: Column sizing of data quality and pipeline widget (Collate)
- **Fix**: Export with new line in description (Collate)
- **Minor**: Fix Page entity publicationDate datatype (Collate)

