---
id: 83
version: v1.9.0
date: Released on 8th August 2025.
---

## Features

### Introducing Data Contracts

Keeping data producers and consumers aligned is not always an easy task. With Data Contracts, you can now formalize an agreement between both parties about what to expect from the data.

OpenMetadata has provided native Data Quality rules for a long time. Data Contracts expand data validations, introducing metadata validations as well:

- **Schema validations:** To ensure that a group of columns should always be available in the asset.
- **Semantic validations:** Providing the ability to define custom metadata rules that the asset should hold at all times, such as having ownership and domain informed.

All Data Contracts are going to be automatically validated daily and you can easily see the status during each execution. Moreover, users can also run a validation after any changes they perform on the asset to ensure nothing is breaking the agreements!

Currently, Data Contracts are available in the UI for Tables. In next releases, we will keep expanding on other data assets, as well as adding other important information such as SLA or Security.

### Multi-domain support & Data Asset Rules

OpenMetadata modelled their Domains and Data Products based on the foundations of Data Mesh. However, some teams might need greater flexibility.

In 1.9.0 release, we are making two core changes on the platform:

1. All entities now support a list of domains, instead of a single domain. This support comes from API, SDKs and UI.
2. We are still maintaining the default approach of allowing a single domain, but admins can now update their platform preferences to enable multi-domain support.

You will find other rules defined in the new Data Asset Rules preferences. Note that any asset that does not follow the enabled rules, won’t be able to be created or updated!

### Landing Page Revamp

We are providing a more modern and structured look to the landing page, making it easier for users to start searching for data, pick it up where they left things with recently visited assets, and improved widgets and components!

### Enhanced Persona Management

Introduced support for setting a default persona at the organization level, enabling centralized control over persona customization across the entire application.

### Data Quality UI Improved UX

This release brings a complete re-design of the Data Quality UI! Our goal has been to:
Give users a more intuitive experience when creating and visualizing Data Quality Tests.
Reduce the number of clicks required to deploy those tests, making it easier for everyone in the organization to collaborate towards your Data Quality goals.
Unify the look and feel with the new platform UX shipped in release 1.8.

### Service Insights Live Updates

The insight tab on service details page now shows live, real-time updates for the service insights summary when AutoPilot workflows are running. The updates include real-time coverage percentages for descriptions, PII tags, tier classifications,ownership, and healthy data assets as well as live counts of total data assets.

The Service Insights tab now also displays live status updates for AutoPilot agents as they process data. Users can monitor AutoPilot workflow instances in real-time, including live auto-pilot status data that shows the progress of automated classification, tiering, and data quality processes.

### Glossary Workflow History

The introduction of the Glossary Approval Workflow brought transparency and flexibility to users, letting them understand better what steps was the platform taking when a Glossary Term was created or updated.
However, figuring out the exact step the workflow was in, or the overall history of changes in a term was not transparent.

In this release, we are bringing a new component in the Glossary UI that will help users understand the workflow progress, failures, and task creation seamlessly.

### Search Reindex Auto Tune

Each release, the OpenMetadata community makes continuous efforts to improve the platform performance in different ways. In 1.9, our focus has been on the reindexing process.

Indexes are used throughout the platform to let users explore and search for metadata, as well as to populate certain components in the UI where we aim for a fast response. The reindexing process already provided multiple configuration options, but those had to be manually modified by admins to match both their data, and the sizing of their Elasticsearch/Opensearch clusters.

With the new Auto Tune, the reindex process will proceed with an automatic and smart configuration, making it easier for admins as well as ensuring the indexing process happens as fast as possible in every deployment!

## Breaking Changes

### Strong validation of test case parameters

The `parameterValues` name of a testCase will be strongly validated against the name of the `parameterDefinition` in the testDefinition. 
If both parameter names do not match an error will be thrown on testCase creation

### Multi-domain Support

**All entities now support multi-domains**. Their `domain` field is now renamed to `domains` and modelled as a list of domains instead of a single domain.

If you're using the API or the SDK, you will need to update your code to use the new `domains` field instead of `domain`. We have also updated the `patch_domain` implementation, which now has a new signature to support the new `domains` field.

While the schema and APIs are all updated, the Multi-domain support is not enabled by default.

If you want to allow your assets to belong to multiple domains, you need to go to Settings > Preferences > Data Asset Rules and disable the `Multiple Domains are not allowed` rule.
